[IMP] whatsapp: clarify "to" field for test message recipients, remove future tense (#15451)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/whatsapp.rst

>    For more information on migrating from Odoo Community version to Odoo Enterprise version see this

Reviewer: I may be mistaken, but we typically just list the documents for seealso admonitions

   documentation: :doc:`/administration/on_premise/community_to_enterprise`.

> With the **Odoo WhatsApp** app, a company can connect a WhatsApp Business

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Odoo's **WhatsApp** app, a company can connect a WhatsApp Business
```
We typically only bold the ap name, not with "Odoo"

   - `Meta Business: change the WhatsApp Business display name
     <https://www.facebook.com/business/help/378834799515077>`_.

WhatsApp is a messaging service operated by Meta, which is the parent company of
Facebook. WhatsApp is commonly used as a communication tool in many countries
and by many businesses. This documentation covers the integration of a WhatsApp
Business Account with Odoo. The company's Meta account is configured in Odoo via
an :abbr:`API (Application Programming Interface)` connection.

The WhatsApp connector supports two flows: company-initiated, and
customer-initiated. A company can initiate a discussion by sending a template to
one or more people. Once the template is sent, the recipient can answer in order

> to trigger a discussion between the sender and the receiver (a *Discuss* chat

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to trigger a discussion between the sender and the receiver (a **Discuss** chat
```
Bold app names

Reviewer: Also, the 'Discuss chat' sentence could be in a note admonition if you want.

> WhatsApp configuration in a Meta

Reviewer: Wouldn't it be just "in Meta"?

================================

A WhatsApp integration with Odoo uses a standard :abbr:`API (Application
Programming Interface)` connection, and is configured on Meta in the following
steps:

#. Create a Meta business account
#. Create a Meta developer account
#. Setup an *app* and WhatsApp *product* on Meta's developer console
#. Test the API connection.

Once connected, messages are then sent and received through Odoo's *Discuss*
application using the WhatsApp :abbr:`API (Application Programming Interface)`.

Meta business account setup
---------------------------

> To create a Business account with Meta, navigate to `Facebook Business Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a business account with Meta, navigate to `Facebook Business Manager
```

   `Set up the WhatsApp Business Platform
   <https://www.facebookblueprint.com/student/collection/409587/path/360218>`_.

Click on :guilabel:`My Apps` in the top right corner after successfully signing
in to the Meta developer account. This redirects the administrator to all the
apps the developer has configured in this specific developer account. Click on
:guilabel:`Create App` to begin the process of configuring a new Meta
application.

App type
--------

On the :menuselection:`Create an app` page, select :guilabel:`Other` under the
section labeled, :guilabel:`Looking for something else?`, and then click
:guilabel:`Next` to be directed to another page in order to select the app type.
Then, click on the first option listed under the :guilabel:`Select an app type`
label, titled :guilabel:`Business`. This selection allows for the creation and
management of the WhatsApp :abbr:`API (Application Programming Interface)`.

Now, click :guilabel:`Next` to configure the app, as desired. When the app

> *type* has been configured, the administrator moves on to the app *details*

Reviewer: If you want, you can add anchors (refs) to the sections you mention in the instructions, and link to them - like here, 'the administrator moves onto the (app details) - this part would be the ref link. This could be done throughout the doc where you mention the various steps. Totally optional, but I think these are fun to add =)

section.

App details
-----------

On the :guilabel:`Details` section of the :guilabel:`Create an app` process,
enter `Odoo` in the field under the :guilabel:`Add an app name` label.

.. note::
   The app name can be changed at a later time in the settings, if necessary.

.. warning::
   Trademarks and branded elements may not be used in this text section. These include the Meta

>    group of companies. Do not include the word `WhatsApp` or the system flags this in error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   group of companies. Do **not** include the word `WhatsApp` or the system flags this in error.
```

Add a WhatsApp product to the app
---------------------------------

Now that the basic structure of the app has been created, a product needs to be
added to the app. Begin by accessing the Meta app dashboard by navigating to
`<https://developers.facebook.com/apps>`_, and clicking on the app that is being
configured.

On the next page, click :guilabel:`Set up` next to the box containing WhatsApp,
located towards the bottom of the page.

.. seealso::
   `Meta's WhatsApp developer documentation <https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/>`_.

> The page then directs to the configuration page for the :guilabel:`WhatsApp

Reviewer: Same as my previous comment- is it redirects, or loads?

Business Platform API`. Use the drop-down menu to select the Meta business to be
configured for the :guilabel:`Select a Meta Business Account` option, and then
click :guilabel:`Continue` to confirm the selection. When :guilabel:`Continue`
is clicked, the administrator agrees to Meta's terms and conditions as linked on
the :guilabel:`Meta App Dashboard`.

Once the WhatsApp product is added to the app, Meta provides a WhatsApp test
phone number. This test phone number can send unlimited messages to a maximum of
five recipients. Under :guilabel:`Send and receive messages`, select the
:guilabel:`To` field and choose :guilabel:`Manage phone number list`. Add up to
five valid WhatsApp number as recipients, then enter the confirmation codes sent

> to those phone numbers in WhatsApp to verify. See the `WhatsApp Cloud API guide

Reviewer: If you want, this could just be a see also admonition with the doc link. Optional!

<https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/cloud-api/get-started#add-recipient-number>`_
for more details.

> Start using the WhatsApp API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the WhatsApp API
```

Author: WhatsApp API quickstart? In sentence case?

:guilabel:`Next`.

.. important::
   Adding a phone number to send to in this step allows for a successful test to be sent by the
   terminal. This is critical to ensure the WhatsApp :abbr:`API (Application Programming Interface)`
   is working.

A verification code from WhatsApp Business is then sent to the phone number,
which needs to be input on the next screen to verify ownership of the number.
Enter the verification code and click :guilabel:`Next` to verify the number.

Send a test message via terminal
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Next, send a test message via the terminal. Under the section labeled
:guilabel:`Step 2 Send messages with the API`, click :guilabel:`Send Message`. A
test message is sent to the phone number that was set in the previous section.

Upon successfully receiving the message to the number, move onto the next
section to produce and configure webhooks.

.. _productivity/whatsapp/webhooks:

WhatsApp configuration in Odoo
==============================

The next steps configured in this section are all within the Odoo database. A
few different values for a token, phone number, and account IDs all need to be

> configured in Odoo; these values are necessary in order to create a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configured in Odoo; these values are necessary to create a
```
This is always flagged by the linter - gets me EVERY time! I always use "in order to" but the Vale is like "nope"! =D

:guilabel:`Callback URL` and :guilabel:`Webhook Verify Token`, which are then
used to configure the webhooks (in order to receive messages back into the
database).

> In Odoo, navigate to :menuselection:`WhatsApp app --> Configuration --> WhatsApp

Reviewer: "WhatsApp app" -try saying that 3 times fast =)

     - :guilabel:`Account ID`

To retrieve the :guilabel:`App Secret`, navigate to the Meta developer console,

> `<https://developers.facebook.com/apps>`_ and select the app that Odoo is being

Reviewer: If `Meta developer console` isn't a link, I would make th etext a link instead of having the link appear after.

configured in. Then in the left-side menu, under :guilabel:`App settings`,
select :guilabel:`Basic`.

Next, click :guilabel:`Show` next to the field :guilabel:`App secret`, and enter
the account password to verify ownership. Copy the :guilabel:`App secret` and
then paste that copied value into the :guilabel:`App Secret` field on the Odoo
:guilabel:`WhatsApp Business Account` configuration dashboard.

To complete the setup of the WhatsApp business account in Odoo, click

> :guilabel:`Test Connection`. A successful message in green populates in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Test Connection`. A successful message in green populates the
```

upper-right corner of the dashboard if the configuration is set correctly.

Configuring webhooks
--------------------

> To configure the webhooks for WhatsApp in Odoo, navigate to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the webhooks for the Odoo **WhatsApp** app, navigate to
```

> Add phone number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a phone number
```
or 'phone numbers'

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To configure the phone number to use for WhatsApp in Odoo, navigate back to the

> Meta developer console (`<https://developers.facebook.com/apps>`_) and again

Reviewer: I would have the words be a hyperlink.

The following page contains information for the :guilabel:`WhatsApp Business
profile`. Complete the following sections, accordingly:

- :guilabel:`WhatsApp Business Profile Display Name`
- :guilabel:`Timezone`
- :guilabel:`Category`
- :guilabel:`Business description` (optional)

Once these sections are complete, click :guilabel:`Next`. The page refreshes and
then prompts the administrator to :guilabel:`Add a phone number for WhatsApp` in
the respective field. Here, enter the phone number to configure in WhatsApp.

.. seealso::
   `Migrate an Existing WhatsApp Number to a Business Account
   <https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/cloud-api/get-started/migrate-existing-whatsapp-
   number-to-a-business-account>`_.

Next, choose a verification method for the phone number. Select either
:guilabel:`Text message` or :guilabel:`Phone call`, and then click
:guilabel:`Next` proceed.

The phone number entered receives either a text or a phone call by WhatsApp with
a code, depending on the verification method chosen. Enter that verification
code into the :guilabel:`Verification code` field and click :guilabel:`Next` to
finish.

.. warning::

>    If a payment method has not been added, this is necessary to proceed. `Visit Meta's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A payment method **must** be added to proceed. `Visit Meta's
```

Begin by navigating to `<https://business.facebook.com/>`_ and then go to :menuselection:`Business
settings --> User --> System Users`. Select an existing system user or create a new system user by
clicking :guilabel:`Add`.

> Assets now must be added to the system user and then a permanent token can be generated. :icon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assets now must be added to the system user, and then a permanent token can be generated.
```

Click on :guilabel:`Add assets`, and a pop-up window loads. Select :guilabel:`Apps` under the
:guilabel:`Select asset type`, then select the Odoo app and toggle the permissions to *On* under the
:guilabel:`Full control` option. Set this new permission setting by clicking :guilabel:`Save
Changes`. A confirmation window appears, acknowledging the addition of the asset to the system user.
Finish by clicking :guilabel:`Done`.

> Next, the permanent token is generated. Click on :guilabel:`Generate new token`, and a pop-up window

Reviewer: This may just be a personal preference, but I generally don't say "on". Example: Click 'Start' instead of 'Click on  'Start'. If you agree, just update the few parts this wording is used. Totally optional!

Permanent token
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After configuration and testing are complete, a permanent token should be
created to replace the :guilabel:`Temporary token`.

.. seealso::
   `Meta for Developers: System User Access Tokens
   <https://developers.facebook.com/docs/whatsapp/business-management-api/get-started#system-user-
   access-tokens>`_.

Begin by navigating to `<https://business.facebook.com/>`_ and then go to
:menuselection:`Business settings --> User --> System Users`. Select an existing

> system user or create a new system user by clicking on :guilabel:`Add`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
system user or create a new system user by clicking :guilabel:`Add`.
```

Assets now must be added to the system user and then a permanent token can be
generated.

> Click on :guilabel:`Add assets`, and when the pop-up window appears select

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on :guilabel:`Add assets`, then a pop-up window loads, then select
```

:guilabel:`Apps` under the :guilabel:`Select asset type`. Then, select the Odoo

> app and toggle the permissions to *On* under the :guilabel:`Full control`

Reviewer: Not sure if 'on' gets a gui since it's on screen?

Author: IMO it should not, because the word _On_ itself isn't a clickable web element, but it depends on the style our team decides on for formatting _clickable elements_ vs. _labels/titles_ vs. _other elements_ such as drop-down items.

option. Set this new permission setting by clicking :guilabel:`Save Changes`. A
confirmation window appears, acknowledging the addition of the asset to the
system user. Finish by clicking :guilabel:`Done`.

Next, the permanent token is generated. Click on :guilabel:`Generate new token`,
and a pop-up window appears asking which app this token should be generated for.
Select the :guilabel:`App` that this token is for. Then determine the expiration
date of either :guilabel:`60 days` or :guilabel:`Never`.

> Finally, when Meta asks which permissions should the system user allow, add all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, Meta asks which permissions the system user allows.  Add all
```
Sounds like the present tense as opposed to future

WhatsApp templates
==================

WhatsApp templates allow users to store messages that are frequently sent. By creating templates
tailored to specific situations, users can easily send pre-approved messages, without having to
compromise on quality or compose the same text repeatedly. This ensures quick turnaround and
consistent customer service messaging, and increases the overall engagement rate with the customer.

WhatsApp templates can be created on both the :ref:`Odoo <whatsapp/odoo-templates>` and :ref:`Meta
<whatsapp/meta-templates>` consoles.

.. important::
   WhatsApp has an approval process that **must** be completed *before* the template can be used.
   See :ref:`productivity/whatsapp/approval`.

To access WhatsApp templates, navigate to the :menuselection:`WhatsApp app --> Templates` dashboard.

Each template has three tabs:

- :guilabel:`Body`\: stores the message body. The message body may contain placeholders for dynamic
  content which is populated when the message is sent.
- :guilabel:`Buttons`\: adds clickable buttons/hyperlinks at the bottom of the WhatsApp template.

>   Currently, there are three button types (in Odoo 19)\: *Quick Reply*, *Visit Website*, and *Call

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Currently, there are three button types\: *Quick Reply*, *Visit Website*, and *Call
```

since we're documenting 17 right now

In general, we don't reference the version number in-line, and if there's a reason to, we have to make sure we're careful about it in fwps, so the Odoo 19 doc doesn't have text talking about Odoo 17, for example

template should link to. Next, under the :guilabel:`Applies to` field, select the *model* the server
action should apply to this template.

.. tip::
   These models can also be accessed in :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>`. In a contact form
   (or similar relevant form in Odoo), navigate to the model to be referenced, and hover over a
   field name. This displays backend information, including the specific Odoo :guilabel:`Model` name
   in the backend. Search for the model's *frontend* name  in the WhatsApp template, under the
   :guilabel:`Applies to` drop-down menu.

.. warning::
   The :guilabel:`Phone Field` may produce an error when changing the model or :guilabel:`Applies
   to` field. The :guilabel:`Phone Field` should always be set to the `Phone` or `Mobile` model.

To search available fields, type the frontend name in the :guilabel:`Search...` box.  This displays
results from all of the available fields for the model (:guilabel:`Applies to`) that the template is
created for.

.. note::
   To find specific fields, multiple levels may need to be navigated in the search results box. Use

>    the :icon:`fa-chevron-right` :guilabel:`(right chevron) and ::icon:`fa-arrow-left`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   the :icon:`fa-chevron-right` :guilabel:`(right chevron) and :icon:`fa-arrow-left`
```

They allow users to send quality communications, without having to compose the same text repeatedly.

Creating different templates that are tailored to specific situations lets users choose the right
message for the right audience. This increases the quality of the message and the overall engagement
rate with the customer.

WhatsApp templates can be created on both the :ref:`Odoo <whatsapp/odoo-templates>` and :ref:`Meta
<whatsapp/meta-templates>` consoles.

.. important::
   WhatsApp has an approval process that **must*** be completed *before* the template can be used.
   :ref:`productivity/whatsapp/approval`.

.. _whatsapp/odoo-templates:

> Create templates in Odoo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create WhatsApp templates in Odoo
```
Only because we create many templates in Odoo - contracts, emails, etc - so this is just to clarify, especially when doing a search in the docs.

   :guilabel:`Privacy Policy URL` field of the form. Click :guilabel:`Save changes` to apply the
   privacy policy to the app.

Once the app has gone live in the Meta developer console, a confirmation email
is sent to the administrator.

.. _productivity/whatsapp/templates:

WhatsApp templates
==================

WhatsApp templates are saved messages that are used repeatedly to send messages
from the database. They allow users to send quality communications, without
having to compose the same text repeatedly.

Creating different templates that are tailored to specific situations lets users
choose the right message for the right audience. This increases the quality of
the message and the overall engagement rate with the customer.

> WhatsApp templates can be created on both the Odoo and Meta consoles. The

Reviewer: I would recommend having ref links for 'Odoo' and 'Meta', then linking ot the sections. Then you can eliminate the last sentence.

following process overviews the process for creating templates in Odoo and then

> afterward in Meta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Only if you change to incude ref links form the above ocmment

.. important::

>    WhatsApp has an approval process that must be completed before the template can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   WhatsApp has an approval process that **must*** be completed *before* the template can be used.
```
I overuse emphasis marks, but I like it =D

The text is entered into the :guilabel:`Body` tab, and dynamic content that is
called out in the :guilabel:`Body` tab is specified in the :guilabel:`Variables`
tab. Every piece of dynamic content (e.g., placeholders) in the message (body)
is specifically called out and specified in the :guilabel:`Variables` tab.

Templates are prefabricated layouts that allow users to send professional
looking messages to customers. These templates are capable of containing dynamic
data that populate in the end message using the variables set in the template
configuration. For example, messages can contain the end user's name, call out
specific products, or reference a sales order, to name a few convenient and
impactful variables.

To create a WhatsApp template, go to the :menuselection:`WhatsApp app -->
Templates` dashboard and click :guilabel:`New`. On the form, enter a
:guilabel:`Name` for the template, and select a :guilabel:`Language`.

.. important::
   In order to complete this next task, administrator access rights are needed to edit the
   :guilabel:`Applies to` field. See this :doc:`access rights documentation
   <../general/users/access_rights>` for more information.

> 

Reviewer: I'd make "adminiatrator access rights" the link text instead of adding 'see this doc..."

   produce an error The :guilabel:`Phone Field` should always be set to the `Phone` or `Mobile`
   model.

To search available fields, type in the front-end name in the
:guilabel:`Search...` box.  This finds a result from all of the available fields
for the model (:guilabel:`Applies to`) that the template is created for.

.. note::

>    In order to find specific fields, multiple levels may need to be navigated in the search results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To find specific fields, multiple levels may need to be navigated in the search results
```

- Document
- Location (variables need to be set)

Navigate to the :guilabel:`Body` tab to configure the main message of the
template.

When all the necessary changes are made to the template, click on the
:guilabel:`Submit for approval` button in the upper-left corner. This causes the

> status of the template to change to :guilabel:`Pending`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Submit for approval` button in the upper-left corner. This causes the
status of the template to change to :guilabel:`Pending`.
```
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Submit for approval` button in the upper-left corner, and the
status of the template changes to :guilabel:`Pending`.
```

> Using placeholders and variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Placeholders and variables
```
Only because Btuttons isn't "Using buttons' or 'Adding buttons'

>    :align: center

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After updating the dynamic variables on the template, the template needs to be submitted to Meta for

> approval again. Click :guilabel:`Submit for Approval` to start the approval process. An email is

Reviewer: i recommend: 
...needs to be resubmitted to Meta for approval.

 just flows better/sounds less awkward ( I know the orignal wording was NOT yours!)

Notification settings can be adjusted by navigating to :menuselection:`WhatsApp app -->
Configuration --> WhatsApp Business Accounts`. From there, select the account and scroll down to the
:menuselection:`Control` section where notifications are handled. Under the :guilabel:`Notify users`
heading, type in the field which users should be notified for this particular WhatsApp channel.

.. note::
   Once a conversation is initiated between a user and a customer, notifications to all the users
   specified in the WhatsApp business account configuration won't occur. Only notifications to the
   users in the conversation occur. Should the user not respond within 15 days, the customer's reply
   after the 15 days populates once again to all the users specified in the WhatsApp configuration.

Adding users to a chat
======================

Users can be added to a WhatsApp chat by expanding the WhatsApp pop-up window. WhatsApp
conversations are located in the **Discuss** app. Click on the :icon:`fa-user-plus` :guilabel:`(add

> user)` icon icon next to it, and a window appears to invite users to the conversation.

Author: Okay that sounds good! I was planning to make another PR anyway, since 18.0 and 19.0 are identical but there are quite a few diffs between those and 17.0.

   :alt: Template configuration options listed, with Marketing, Utility, Name and Language
         highlighted.

After making the appropriate selections, click on :guilabel:`Continue` in the
upper-right corner. The page redirects to the :guilabel:`Edit template` page.
Here the :guilabel:`Header`, :guilabel:`Body`, :guilabel:`Footer` and
:guilabel:`Buttons` are configured. To the right of the template is a preview of
what the template looks like in production.

.. image:: whatsapp/edit-template.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Edit the template using a header, body, footer and buttons.

When all the necessary changes are made to the template, click on the
:guilabel:`Submit` button in the upper-right corner. A confirmation window
appears to confirm the language— click :guilabel:`Confirm` to approve and then
another window appears stating that the template has been submitted to Meta for
review and approval.

> The :guilabel:`Status` of the template remains in :guilabel:`In review` until a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Status` of the template remains :guilabel:`In review` until a
```

Notifications
=============

Notifications in WhatsApp are handled similar to a message conversation in Odoo.
A pop-up window appears with the received conversation from the customer. By
default, notifications are set in the WhatsApp business account configuration in
Odoo.

Notification settings can be adjusted by navigating to :menuselection:`WhatsApp
app --> Configuration --> WhatsApp Business Accounts`. From there, select the
account and scroll down to the :menuselection:`Control` section where
notifications are handled. Under the :guilabel:`Notify users` heading, type in
the field which user(s) should be notified for this particular WhatsApp channel.

.. note::
   Once a conversation is initiated between a user and a customer, notifications to all the users
   specified in the WhatsApp business account configuration won't occur. Only notifications to the
   user(s) in the conversation occur. Should the user not respond within 15 days, the
   customer's reply after the 15 days populates once again to all the users specified in the
   WhatsApp configuration.

> Adding users to chat

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding users to a chat
```

User error
~~~~~~~~~~

If the temporary token is not replaced with a permanent token, Odoo will display "User Error 190:

> Error validating access token: Session has expired". To correct this issue, see

Author: The character is showing up blank for me, but I'm guessing you mean the backtick?

Template errors
---------------

Editing templates can cause tracebacks and errors unless the exact process is
followed above, here: (:ref:`productivity/whatsapp/templates`).

Duplicate validation error
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When syncing the templates there may be an instance when there are multiple
templates with the same name on Meta's business manager and in Odoo. This causes
a duplicate validation error. To correct this issue, rename the duplicate
template name on Odoo and sync the templates once again by following the steps
here: :ref:`productivity/whatsapp/sync`.

.. image:: whatsapp/validation-error-2.png

>    :align: center

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

System user error 100
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Should the system user be an :guilabel:`Employee` when setting up the permanent

> token, a user error 100 populates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
token, a `user error 100` populates...  what - a field? box? I'd specify where it is populated. Also, I'd mark the psecific text that appears with the ` ` marks.
```
